<h1 align="center">
   Dependencies, Property file management Conceptual Questions
</h1>


## Q1. What is a Starter dependency in Spring boot?
- Spring Boot starters are jar dependencies, which provide a quick way to configure our application, without manually including a lot of related Jar dependencies.
- A starter dependency is a pre-configured set of dependencies that are grouped together to provide a specific functionality.
- Starter dependencies can help simplify the process of setting up a Spring Boot application by providing all the necessary dependencies and configuration out of the box.
- Each starter dependency is designed to provide a specific set of functionality, such as web applications, data access, security, messaging, and more. When you include a starter dependency in your Spring Boot application, it will automatically pull in all the necessary dependencies for that functionality, as well as any required configuration.

Here are some of the commonly used starter dependencies in Spring:

**spring-boot-starter-parent:** This is a main starter defined in the <parent/> section of pom.xml file. Dependencies inherited from here using Maven build.

**spring-boot-starter-web:** This starter dependency includes all the necessary dependencies to develop web applications using Spring MVC.

**spring-boot-starter-data-jpa:** This starter dependency includes all the necessary dependencies to use the Java Persistence API (JPA) for database access.

**spring-boot-starter-security:** This starter dependency includes all the necessary dependencies to implement security features such as authentication and authorization.

**spring-boot-starter-test:** This starter dependency includes all the necessary dependencies to write unit and integration tests for Spring applications.


## Q2. What should be done, if all the dependencies given by starter in Spring boot are not needed?
- If we don't need all of the dependencies that Spring Boot Starter includes, then we can exclude the dependencies that are not required.
- we can exclude specific dependencies from a starter by adding an exclusion to our Maven or Gradle build file.
- For example, if we don't need the embedded Tomcat server that comes with the spring-boot-starter-web starter, we can exclude it in below way:

```

 <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
   <exclusions>
      <exclusion>
         <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
         <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-tomcat</artifactId>
      </exclusion>
   </exclusions>
</dependency>

```


## Q3. How to exclude a library in Spring Boot?
In Spring Boot, we can exclude a library that is included as a transitive dependency by adding an exclusion element to the relevant dependency in our project's `pom.xml` file (if using Maven) or `build.gradle` file (if using Gradle).

For example, If we want to exclude the `commons-logging` library that is included as a transitive dependency of the `spring-boot-starter-web` dependency. we can add the following exclusion element to your `pom.xml` or `build.gradle` file:

**Maven:**

```

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
    <exclusions>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>commons-logging</groupId>
            <artifactId>commons-logging</artifactId>
        </exclusion>
    </exclusions>
</dependency>

 ```

**Gradle:**

```

dependencies {
    compile('org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web') {
        exclude group: 'commons-logging', module: 'commons-logging'
    }
}

```

Note: If we are excluding a library that is included by multiple dependencies, we may need to add multiple exclusion elements to our `pom.xml` or `build.gradle` file.


## Q4. How to disable embedded server in Spring Boot?
- In Spring Boot, the embedded server is started by default when the application is launched. If we want to disable the embedded server and deploy our application to an external server, we can do so by following these steps:
- Exclude the embedded server dependency: In the pom.xml (if using Maven) or build.gradle (if using Gradle) file, exclude the embedded server dependency. For example, if we want to exclude Tomcat, we can add the following code:

```

<dependency>
   <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
   <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
   <exclusions>
      <exclusion>
         <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
         <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-tomcat</artifactId>
      </exclusion>
   </exclusions>
</dependency>

```

- Add a war packaging: Change the packaging of the application from jar to war in our pom.xml or build.gradle file.
- Deploy the war file: After building the war file, deploy it to an external server such as Tomcat, Jetty, or WebSphere.
 

## Q5.How to enable ssl in Spring Boot?
- Enabling SSL in a Spring Boot application involves configuring the web server used by the application to use SSL. Here are the general steps to enable SSL in a Spring Boot application:
- Obtain or generate a SSL certificate: You can either obtain a SSL certificate from a trusted certificate authority (CA) or generate a self-signed certificate.
- Configure the application to use HTTPS: This involves updating the `application.properties` file or `application.yml` file to set the `server.ssl.enabled` property to `true`. You should also set the `server.port` property to the appropriate HTTPS port, which is usually `443`.

```
server.ssl.enabled=true
server.port=443

```

- Provide the SSL certificate: You need to provide the SSL certificate to the web server used by the application.
- The exact steps to do this depend on the web server used. If you are using the default Tomcat server provided by Spring Boot, you can provide the SSL certificate by creating a keystore file that contains the SSL certificate and configuring the server to use the keystore file.  we can do this by adding the following properties to the `application.properties` file:

```
server.ssl.key-store-type=PKCS12
server.ssl.key-store=classpath:keystore.p12
server.ssl.key-store-password=your_password
server.ssl.key-alias=your_alias

```

- Test the HTTPS endpoint: After enabling SSL, you can test the HTTPS endpoint by accessing the application using the HTTPS protocol instead of HTTP. You should see a padlock icon in the browser address bar indicating that the connection is secured with SSL.


## Q6. How to manage the environment based properties in Spring Boot?
Spring Boot provides several ways to manage environment-based properties in our application. Here are some of the most common methods:

1. We can use the `application.properties` or `application.yml` file to configure environment-based properties. We can create separate files for each environment (`application-{environment}.properties` or `application-{environment}.yml`) and specify the properties specific to that environment.

Here's an example of how to define properties in the `application-dev.properties` file:

```

server.port=8080
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydatabase_dev
spring.datasource.username=root
spring.datasource.password=password123

```

To activate a specific profile, we can set the `spring.profiles.active` property in the `application.properties`.

```

spring.profiles.active=dev

```

2. Using system environment variables:

We can set environment-based properties using system environment variables. Spring Boot provides a way to map environment variables to properties using the `@Value` annotation or the `Environment` class.

For example, you can set the database URL and credentials using environment variables:

```

SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/prod_db
SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=root
SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=root

```

Then you can use the `@Value` annotation to inject these values into your code:

```

@Value("${spring.datasource.url}")
private String url;

```


## Q7. What is the default port number of tomcat in a Spring Boot application? How can you change it?
The default port number for Tomcat is 8080.

In Spring Boot, we can change the default port number by setting the `server.port` property in the `application.properties` file.

```

server.port=9090

```

Alternatively, you can also set the port number programmatically in your Spring Boot application by defining a bean of type `EmbeddedServletContainerFactory`.

For example:

```

@Bean
public EmbeddedServletContainerFactory servletContainer() {
    TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory factory = new TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory();
    factory.setPort(your_desired_port_number);
    return factory;
}

```
